@node Web User Interface, Reports API, Command line interface, Top
@chapter Web User Interface

The Web User Interface is a frontend to the Reports database. It
allows to overview reports that came in from several machines, in
several test suites.

It can filter the results by dates, machines or test suite, gives
colorful (RED/YELLOW/GREEN) overview about success/failure ratios,
allows to zoom into details of single reports.

To evaluate reported test results in a more programmatic way, have a
look into the @emph{DPath Query Language} that is part of the
@ref{Reports API}.

@section Usage

The main URL is typically somerthing like

@example
@url{http://tapper/tapper}
@end example


@section Understanding Tapper Details

@subsection Part 1 Overview

@itemize

@item Go to @url{https://tapper/tapper/reports}

@item Click ``Last weeks test reports'', 
  aka. @url{https://tapper/tapper/reports/date/7}

@item Below day ``Wed Oct 7, 2009'' find the line 

@verbatim
    20856  2009-10-07  Topic-xen-unstable  satyr  PASS testrun 9617
@end verbatim

  To find this report you probably need to go more back into the past
  than just 7 days, or you use the direct link below.

@item Note that there are other reports in this group that are greyed-out,
  i.e. all report ids of this testrun are:

@verbatim
    20856    Topic-xen-unstable
    20855    LMBench
    20854    CTCS
    20852    Host-Overview
    20851    Hardwaredb Overview
@end verbatim

@item Note that something FAILed in the CTCS run (20854).

@item What we know until here:

@itemize

@item It is a test for Xen-unstable (Topic-xen-unstable)

@item The running of the guests+suites itself worked well (20856 PASS)

@item There were 2 guest runs: 

@verbatim
        LMBench      satyr:celegorm                  PASS
        CTCS         satyr:eriador                   FAIL
@end verbatim

@end itemize

@item Click on the ID link ``20856''
  aka. @url{https://tapper/tapper/reports/id/20856}

@end itemize


@subsection Part 2 Details


@itemize

@item Here you see the details of this report 20856.

You see:


@itemize

@item green PASSED results for the ``MCP overview''. 
      This means the starting and finishing of the guests worked.

@item attachments of console logs.

@item some links to more information (raw TAP report, preconditions)

@end itemize


@item Note below the group of all the other reports, again it's the group
  of those IDs:

@verbatim
    20856    Topic-xen-unstable
    20855    LMBench
    20854    CTCS
    20852    Host-Overview
    20851    Hardwaredb Overview
@end verbatim

@item The most meta information is in ``20852 Host-Overview''.

@item Click on the ID link ``20852''
  aka. @url{https://tapper/tapper/reports/id/20852}

@item Now you see the details of ``20852 Host-Overview'' with 
lots of meta information as ``Context''.

You see:

@verbatim
  Metainfo
      cpuinfo: 	1x Family: 15, Model: 67, Stepping: 2
      ram: 	3950 MB
      uptime: 	0 hrs

  XEN-Metainfo
      xen_dom0_kernel: 	2.6.18.8-xen x86_64
      xen_base_os_description: 	SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 10 SP2 (x86_64)
      xen_changeset: 	20273:10cfcbef68ee
      xen_version: 	3.5-unstable

  guest_1_redhat_rhel5u4_32bpae_qcow
      xen_guest_description: 	001-lmbench
      xen_guest_flags: 	…
      xen_guest_start: 	…

  guest_2_suse_sles10_sp3_gmc_32b_up_qcow
      xen_guest_description: 	002-ctcs
      xen_guest_flags: 	…
      xen_guest_start: 	…
@end verbatim


@item If you are interested in what went wrong in the CTCS run, 
  click on ID link ``20854''
  aka. @url{https://tapper/tapper/reports/id/20854}

@item Here you see 

@itemize

@item one RED bar in CTCS-results

@item several RED bars in var_log_messages

@end itemize

You can click on them to unfold the details.

@end itemize


@subsection Part 3 Testrun

@itemize

@item Imagine that the testrun completely failed and no usable reports
  arrived in, except that primary one from the MCP, then you can use the
  link at the end of the line

@verbatim
    20856  2009-10-07  Topic-xen-unstable  satyr  PASS testrun 9617
                                                       ------------ 
@end verbatim

@item Click on that link ``testrun 9617''
  aka. @url{https://tapper/tapper/testruns/id/9617}

@item That contains the description what was @strong{planned} 
in this testrun, regardless of whether it succeeded.

(That's the main difference between the two complementary concepts
``Testrun'' vs. ``Reports''. The ``Testrun'' contains the
specification, the ``Reports'' contain the results.)

You see:

@verbatim
  Name                  Automatically generated Xen test
  Host
      Architecture      linux64
      Root image        …/suse_sles10_sp2_64b_smp_raw.tar.gz
      Test              metainfo
  Guest number 1
      Architecture      linux32
      Root image        …/redhat_rhel5u4_32bpae_qcow.img
      Test              py_lmbench
  Guest number 2
      Architecture 	linux32
      Root image 	…/suse_sles10_sp3_gmc_32b_up_qcow.img
      Test              py_ctcs
@end verbatim


@item That's it, basically.

@end itemize
