@node Synopsis, Technical Infrastructure, Top, Top
@chapter Synopsis
@menu
* Tapper infrastructure::      
* Vocabulary::                  
@end menu


@node Tapper infrastructure, Vocabulary, Synopsis, Synopsis
@section Tapper infrastructure

Tapper is an infrastructure. 

It consists of applications, tools and protocols for testing software
and evaluating the results. One initial main focus was on testing
Operating Systems in virtualization environments. It is now a modular
infrastructure for lots of other, related scenarios, like benchmarking
or build systems.

There are 3 important layers:

@itemize

@item @strong{Reports Framework}

@item @strong{Test Suites}

@item @strong{Automation System}

@end itemize

The layers can work completely autonomously, though can also be
connected together and are targeted to be stacked in this order:

@itemize

@item The @strong{Report Framework} is for receiving and evaluating 
test reports sent by any source. The only requirement is that the
result reports are using TAP, the Test Anything Protocol.

@item The @strong{Test Suites} are either directed test suites or
wrappers around existing test projects doing conversion of their
results into TAP. These are the TAP producers that create reports and
send them to the Reports Framework.

@item The @strong{Automation System} is taking care of setting up
machines, installing dependencies and test suites and running the
latter. It can set up virtualized environments.

@end itemize

To fully exploit the system you need to learn:

@itemize 

@item @strong{Connect and prepare a new machine into the infrastructure}

@item @strong{Write tests using the Test Anything Protocol (TAP)}

@item @strong{Write preconditions to describe automation tasks}

@item @strong{Review results via Web interface}

@item @strong{Evaluate results via Report Query interface}

@end itemize

@node Vocabulary,  , Tapper infrastructure, Synopsis
@section Vocabulary


@menu
* Vocabulary - Master Control Program (MCP)::  
* Vocabulary - Program Run Control (PRC)::  
* Vocabulary - Reports Receiver::  
* Vocabulary - Reports API::    
* Vocabulary - Web User Interface::  
* Vocabulary - Reports DB::     
* Vocabulary - Testrun DB::     
* Vocabulary - Testrun::        
* Vocabulary - Preconditions::  
* Vocabulary - Report::         
* Vocabulary - Test Anything Protocol (TAP)::  
* Vocabulary - TAP archive::    
@end menu

@node Vocabulary - Master Control Program (MCP), Vocabulary - Program Run Control (PRC), Vocabulary, Vocabulary
@subsection Master Control Program (MCP)

There is a central server controlling the automation by running the
@strong{Master Control Program}, aka. @strong{MCP}. Usually it also
centralizes several other services: it is the TFTP server for network
booting, runs the daemons of the reports framework (reports receiver,
remote api) and the web application, including the mysql databases,
and also serves the file repository via NFS.

@node Vocabulary - Program Run Control (PRC), Vocabulary - Reports Receiver, Vocabulary - Master Control Program (MCP), Vocabulary
@subsection Program Run Control (PRC)

When machines run automated tests, these test program runs are
controlled by a @strong{Program Run Control}, aka. @strong{PRC}. In
virtualization scenarios, each host and guest has its own PRC,
numbered PRC0 (for the host), PRC1 (1st guest), PRC2 (2nd guest), etc.

@node Vocabulary - Reports Receiver, Vocabulary - Reports API, Vocabulary - Program Run Control (PRC), Vocabulary
@subsection Reports Receiver

The @strong{Reports Receiver} means the daemons that accept
reports. We often run them on the same machine as the MCP and the Web
framework, but that's not neccessary.

@node Vocabulary - Reports API, Vocabulary - Web User Interface, Vocabulary - Reports Receiver, Vocabulary
@subsection Reports API

Similar to the reports receiver is the @strong{Reports API} which is
the daemon for all more complex interfaces, like uploading files,
downloading files, querying the reports. Similar to reports API we
often run them on the same machine as the MCP and the Web application,
but that's not neccessary.

@node Vocabulary - Web User Interface, Vocabulary - Reports DB, Vocabulary - Reports API, Vocabulary
@subsection Web User Interface

The @strong{Web User Interface} is an independent web
application. Similar to the reports receiver and the reports API it
can run anywhere, either standalone or in Apache, via mod_perl, FCGI,
etc.. The only common thing for all those central applications (MCP,
reports receiver, reports api, web application) is the config to use
the same databases.

@node Vocabulary - Reports DB, Vocabulary - Testrun DB, Vocabulary - Web User Interface, Vocabulary
@subsection Reports DB

The @strong{Reports DB} contains all data that are reported. It's the
base for the reports receiver, the reports API, the web application.

@node Vocabulary - Testrun DB, Vocabulary - Testrun, Vocabulary - Reports DB, Vocabulary
@subsection Testrun DB

The @strong{Testrun DB} is the DB for the automation layer. It
contains hosts, testrun specifications and scheduling information.

@node Vocabulary - Testrun, Vocabulary - Preconditions, Vocabulary - Testrun DB, Vocabulary
@subsection Testrun

A @strong{Testrun} is a request to the automation layer to set up a
host machine and run a workload on it. It consists of
``preconditions'' and scheduling information (host name, wanted host
features, scheduling queue).

@node Vocabulary - Preconditions, Vocabulary - Report, Vocabulary - Testrun, Vocabulary
@subsection Preconditions

@strong{Preconditions} are specifications that describe how to set up
a host. They are the essential part of a testrun.

@node Vocabulary - Report, Vocabulary - Test Anything Protocol (TAP), Vocabulary - Preconditions, Vocabulary
@subsection Report

A @strong{Report} is the reported result of any workload, regardless
of how it was produced (automatically, by a tes suite, manually via
echo and netcat). Its only requirement is to be formatted in TAP (the
Test Anything Protocol), or as TAP archive.

@node Vocabulary - Test Anything Protocol (TAP), Vocabulary - TAP archive, Vocabulary - Report, Vocabulary
@subsection Test Anything Protocol (TAP)

The @strong{Test Anything Protocol} aka. @strong{TAP} is the syntax to
describe test results.

@node Vocabulary - TAP archive,  , Vocabulary - Test Anything Protocol (TAP), Vocabulary
@subsection TAP archives

A @strong{TAP archive} is a .tar.gz file that contains files of
TAP. It's the result of a test suite that can consist of many parts
compressed into a single file.
