=head1 Web User Interface

The Web User Interface is a frontend to the Reports database. It
allows to overview reports that came in from several machines, in
several test suites.

It can filter the results by dates, machines or test suite, gives
colorful (RED/YELLOW/GREEN) overview about success/failure ratios,
allows to zoom into details of single reports.

To evaluate reported test results in a more programmatic way, have a
look into the I<DPath Query Language> that is part of the
L<Reports API>.


=head2 Usage

The main URL is typically somerthing like

  L<http://tapper/tapper>


=head2 Understanding Tapper Details

=head3 Part 1 Overview

=over 4

=item Go to L<https://tapper/tapper/reports>

=item Click ``Last weeks test reports'', 
  aka. L<https://tapper/tapper/reports/date/7>

=item Below day ``Wed Oct 7, 2009'' find the line 

      20856  2009-10-07  Topic-xen-unstable  satyr  PASS testrun 9617

  To find this report you probably need to go more back into the past
  than just 7 days, or you use the direct link below.

=item Note that there are other reports in this group that are greyed-out,
  i.e. all report ids of this testrun are:

      20856    Topic-xen-unstable
      20855    LMBench
      20854    CTCS
      20852    Host-Overview
      20851    Hardwaredb Overview

=item Note that something FAILed in the CTCS run (20854).

=item What we know until here:

=over 4

=item It is a test for Xen-unstable (Topic-xen-unstable)

=item The running of the guests+suites itself worked well (20856 PASS)

=item There were 2 guest runs: 

          LMBench      satyr:celegorm                  PASS
          CTCS         satyr:eriador                   FAIL

=back

=item Click on the ID link ``20856''
  aka. L<https://tapper/tapper/reports/id/20856>

=back


=head3 Part 2 Details


=over 4

=item Here you see the details of this report 20856.

You see:


=over 4

=item green PASSED results for the ``MCP overview''. 
      This means the starting and finishing of the guests worked.

=item attachments of console logs.

=item some links to more information (raw TAP report, preconditions)

=back


=item Note below the group of all the other reports, again it's the group
  of those IDs:

      20856    Topic-xen-unstable
      20855    LMBench
      20854    CTCS
      20852    Host-Overview
      20851    Hardwaredb Overview

=item The most meta information is in ``20852 Host-Overview''.

=item Click on the ID link ``20852''
  aka. L<https://tapper/tapper/reports/id/20852>

=item Now you see the details of ``20852 Host-Overview'' with 
lots of meta information as ``Context''.

You see:

    Metainfo
        cpuinfo: 	1x Family: 15, Model: 67, Stepping: 2
        ram: 	3950 MB
        uptime: 	0 hrs

    XEN-Metainfo
        xen_dom0_kernel: 	2.6.18.8-xen x86_64
        xen_base_os_description: 	SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 10 SP2 (x86_64)
        xen_changeset: 	20273:10cfcbef68ee
        xen_version: 	3.5-unstable

    guest_1_redhat_rhel5u4_32bpae_qcow
        xen_guest_description: 	001-lmbench
        xen_guest_flags: 	...
        xen_guest_start: 	...

    guest_2_suse_sles10_sp3_gmc_32b_up_qcow
        xen_guest_description: 	002-ctcs
        xen_guest_flags: 	...
        xen_guest_start: 	...


=item If you are interested in what went wrong in the CTCS run, 
  click on ID link ``20854''
  aka. L<https://tapper/tapper/reports/id/20854>

=item Here you see 

=over 4

=item one RED bar in CTCS-results

=item several RED bars in var_log_messages

=back

You can click on them to unfold the details.

=back


=head3 Part 3 Testrun

=over 4

=item Imagine that the testrun completely failed and no usable reports
  arrived in, except that primary one from the MCP, then you can use the
  link at the end of the line

      20856  2009-10-07  Topic-xen-unstable  satyr  PASS testrun 9617
                                                         ------------ 

=item Click on that link ``testrun 9617''
  aka. L<https://tapper/tapper/testruns/id/9617>

=item That contains the description what was B<planned> 
in this testrun, regardless of whether it succeeded.

(That's the main difference between the two complementary concepts
``Testrun'' vs. ``Reports''. The ``Testrun'' contains the
specification, the ``Reports'' contain the results.)

You see:

    Name                  Automatically generated Xen test
    Host
        Architecture      linux64
        Root image        suse_sles10_sp2_64b_smp_raw.tar.gz
        Test              metainfo
    Guest number 1
        Architecture      linux32
        Root image        redhat_rhel5u4_32bpae_qcow.img
        Test              py_lmbench
    Guest number 2
        Architecture 	  linux32
        Root image 	  suse_sles10_sp3_gmc_32b_up_qcow.img
        Test              py_ctcs


=item That's it, basically.

=back
