=head1 Technical Infrastructure

See also the ``Getting Started Guide'' for more complete step-by-step
instructions how to install the infrastructure from scratch up to a
first example test run.

=head2 Adding a new host into automation

This chapter describes what you need to do in order to get a new
machine into the Tapper test scheduling rotation.

=head3 Make machine remote hard resetable

Connect the machine physically to some facility to programmatically
switch it completely off.

This can be the Reset cable wires connected to a dedicated reset box
which can be programmed usually with an external tool. It can also be
a TCP/IP controllable Power Control. 

As an example Tapper comes with a plugin for the ``Infratec PM211
MIP'' ethernet controllable multi socket outlet. To use it write this
in the configuration file:

  reset_plugin: PM211MIP
  reset_plugin_options:
    ip: 192.168.1.39
    user: admin
    passwd: secret
    outletnr:
      johnconnor: 1
      sarahconnor: 2

This configures to use the PM211MIP plugin for reset and gives it the
configuration that the host ``johnconnor'' is connected on port 0 and
the host ``sarahconnor'' on port 1, together with IP address, username
and password of the multi-socket outlet.

If you have other hardware then write your own reset plugin
C<FooBar> in a Perl module
C<Tapper::MCP::Net::Reset::FooBar>. Look into the code of
C<Tapper::MCP::Net::Reset::PM211MIP> to get inspiration.

=head3 Machine specific configuration

Tapper configuration happens in C</etc/tapper.cfg> which contains
everything that needs to be overwritten from the default values that
come with the library C<Tapper::Config>.

Config entries for C<grub> can be configured for defaults like
this:

  mcp:
    installer:
      default_grub: |
        serial --unit=0 --speed=115200
        terminal serial
        default 0
        timeout 2
        title Test run (Install)
          tftpserver $TAPPER_TFTPSERVER
          kernel $TAPPER_KERNEL root=/dev/nfs reboot=force ro ip=dhcp \
                 nfsroot=$TAPPER_NFSROOT $TAPPER_OPTIONS $HOSTOPTIONS
    test:
      default_grub: |
        default 0
        timeout 2
        title Test run (Execute)
          root $grubroot
          kernel /boot/vmlinuz root=$root reboot=force ip=dhcp noapic \
                 $TAPPER_OPTIONS $HOSTOPTIONS
          $initrd_options

You can see two entries, one for the installer to boot from TFTP, and
one for the actual test run after the machine was installed. Usually
the second part (for test run) is defined in a precondition because it
needs special needs.

In these grub entries the MCP substitutes several variables before the
actual grub entry is written:

=over 4

=item C<$grubroot>

Substituted with something like C<(hd0,1)>.

=item C<$root>

Substituted with something like C</dev/sda2>.

=item C<$TAPPER_TFTPSERVER>

Substituted with tfptserver IP address as configured in
C</etc/tapper.cfg>, like:

  tftp_server_address:     165.204.15.222

=item C<$TAPPER_KERNEL>

Substituted with kernel image file as configured in
C</etc/tapper.cfg>, like:

  files:
    # kernel for installer
    installer_kernel: /tftpboot/bzImage

=item C<$TAPPER_NFSROOT>

Substituted with NFS root filesystem as configured in
C</etc/tapper.cfg>, like:

  paths:
     # Path to installer nfs root as set in PXE grub config
     # (IP of central host "tapper")
     nfsroot: 165.204.15.222:/data/tapper/live/nfsroot/

=item C<$TAPPER_OPTIONS>

Substituted with something like C<tapper_ip=165.204.15.222
tapper_port=1337 testrun=777777 tapper_host=tapper
tapper_environment=live> (as one single line), where ``tapper_ip'' and
``tapper_port'' are the host and port to send status messages to, the
``testrun'' is the testrun id of the current run, ``tapper_host'' a
hostname alternative to ``tapper_ip'' and ``tapper_environment'' sets
the context (``live'' or ``development'').

=item C<$HOSTOPTIONS>

This substitution is controlled by another entry in
C</etc/tapper.cfg>:

  grub_completion_HOSTOPTIONS:
    _default:
      earlyprintk=serial,ttyS0,115200 console=ttyS0,115200
    capalus:
      earlyprintk=serial,ttyS4,115200 console=ttyS4,115200
    garcia:
      0xAFFE

There you see a default value and two entries for the hosts
``capalus'' (defining a different serial interface for console) and
``garcia'' (defining something completely different without any
console usage).

=back


=head3 Make machine PXE boot aware

=over 4

=item Set booting order in BIOS to network first

=item Configure DHCP for each connected machine

The following example configures two hosts C<sarahconnor> and
C<johnconnor> to use the respective files
C</tftpboot/sarahconnor.lst> and C</tftpboot/johnconnor.lst>
as grub config.

   # example dhcp config with invalid ethernet addresses
   subnet 192.168.1.0 netmask 255.255.255.0 {
   group
   {
    filename '/tftpboot/pxegrub';
    # offer the host the here given name as host name
    option host-name = host-decl-name;
    option dhcp-parameter-request-list = concat(option dhcp-parameter-request-list,96);
    host sarahconnor
    {
      hardware ethernet 00:09:11:11:11:11;
      fixed-address 192.168.1.2;
      option configfile "/tftpboot/sarahconnor.lst";
    }
    host johnconnor
    {
     hardware ethernet 00:09:22:22:22:22;
     fixed-address 192.168.1.3;
     option configfile "/tftpboot/johnconnor.lst";
    }
   }

These grub config files are later dynamically overwritten for each
boot by your application server's ``Master Control Program'' (MCP).

The example above assumes the DHCP also running on the central Master
Control Program (MCP) server. To use a DHCP server running on another
host configure it with some grub/tftp redirection chains to in the end
lead to the same files C</tftpboot/sarahconnor.lst> and
C</tftpboot/johnconnor.lst> loaded from the MCP server.

=item Force DHCP server to reread its configuration

   $ kill -HUP $pid_of_dhcpd

=back

=head3 Configure TFTP on central MCP machine

The MCP server is also acting as a TFTP server, so it has to be
configured as such:

=over 4

=item Install a TFTP server

   $ sudo apt-get install inetutils-inetd
   $ sudo apt-get install atftpd
   $ sudo chmod 777 /var/lib/tftpboot/
   $ sudo ln -s /var/lib/tftpboot /tftpboot

=item Create symlinks to point TFTP dir into Tapper working dir

The TFTP daemon only serves files from C</tftpboot>, as seen above
in the DHCP config. To supply files from the Tapper working dir make
the C</tftpboot> a symlink to the Tapper working dir.

   $ ln -s /data/tapper/live/configs/tftpboot /tftpboot

When Tapper creates tftp files it works with absolute path
names. Because the TFTP daemon interprets all absolute pathnames
relative to its root dir we supply a C<tftpboot> symlink inside
the tftp root (which is also our Tapper working dir), so we can use
the same absolute path name in both contexts (Tapper and TFTP):

   $ ln -s /data/tapper/live/configs/tftpboot \
           /data/tapper/live/configs/tftpboot/tftpboot

=back

=head3 Make the hosts known in the TestrunDB

   $ tapper-testrun newhost --name=sarahconnor --active=1
   $ tapper-testrun newhost --name=johnconnor  --active=1

This makes the hosts generally available (active) for scheduling
testruns by machine name. For scheduling hosts by more detailed
machine features (cpu, memory, family, etc.)  you need to add
according key/value pairs in the C<HostFeature> table.

=head3 Optionally: enable C<temare> to generate tests for this host

C<Temare> is an utility that generates preconditions according to
a test matrix of host/guest virtualization scenarios (but not yet
shipped publicly).

For generating preconditions for a host, you can register the host in
C<temare>.

If you want tests scheduled for the new machine then follow these
steps:

=over 4

=item Login as root on MCP server

=item Set the C<PYTHONPATH> to include the I<temare> src directory

  export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:/opt/tapper/python/temare/src

=item Add the host to temare hostlist

   $ /opt/tapper/python/temare/temare hostadd $hostname \
                                               $memory \
                                               $cores \
                                               $bitness

=item Add the Tapper ssh key to your image.

  cat /home/tapper/.ssh/id_dsa.pub >> /root/.ssh/authorized_keys


(FIXME) Actually this does not belong into the host preparation but
into a separate image preparation chapter which does not yet exist.

=back
